Looking at these makes you
traumatized. Hell yeah. So, how to
actually get this nightmare and turn it
into less traumatic
[Music]
experience? Let's start with the base,
the foundation of geometry nodes. This
is your group input and this is your
group output. This contains the stuff
that you can see in the modifiers tab so
you can change them easily. And this is
what this geometry nodes spit out in the
end. Every node you put between makes
your stuff different. This is your best
friend, the spreadsheet. It gives you
information about your mesh, curve,
whatever. And speaking of that, you can
probably see this list here. And you
probably wonder what what are even these
and why there are so many of them. In
Blender you have different type of
objects or meshes. Regular meshes,
curves, grease pencils, points, volume
grids and
instances. These are called in a fancy
way
domains. Each of these types is
different in some way and that's the
reason they are separated. They all
contain different data scientifically
called attributes. So let's take this
cube here. It's just a regular mesh. So,
it's built up by vertices, edges, faces,
and face corners. You can preview all of
them on your spreadsheet. And as you can
see, there's some data about them. Our
attributes. So, vertices have a
position. Faces have a boolean
attribute, whether they're shaded smooth
or not. Face corners, UV maps, and
edges. Edges just don't have anything.
But all of them have one thing in
common, the indexes, which are basically
unique IDs. And that will be important
later.
Backing to my thought, by changing
attributes between these two nodes, we
are overwriting these values. Let's use
the most basic node possible, the set
position node. To add anything, just
press shift plus A and start typing
whatever you need. In our case, set
position. Put it between these and set
one of these values to something. You
see the cube moving and you can also see
the position Z attribute being updated.
But that's cool. But why the hell should
I care about these
numbers? Let me use even simpler example
to show that just two dots. You actually
can use these attributes. Basically
recall them. To access the position
attribute, you bring this node, plug it
into the offset, and see what happens.
Our points have moved by 1 meter. But
why? Remember when I told you about
indexes? You're basically recalling the
position attribute from each vertex and
adding it to this vertex. So the vertex
with index zero moved by the position
attribute from vertex that had the index
zero. Quite simple, right? But no
worries. Let me torture you a bit more.
Add another set position and plug the
exact same position node into this
offset. Points moved again. But why the
hell by 2 m if they are recalling the
same data? Oh, actually that they don't.
These nodes work in reverse. In other
words, this node is basically telling
the set position node what geometry data
should I recall from myself. So he's
recalling these after the first
transform has already happened. And if
we had more attributes assigned to the
vertices, we could also use
them. Okay. Now let's talk about the
node types. These green ones do
something to the mesh. Uh these blue and
purple ones do the math and these red
ones recall attributes. I can't explain
all the nodes in one tutorial, but let's
create something really fast so you get
the basics, learn the workflow a bit and
some
tricks. So, create a cube, add a new
geometry node setup, add a grid, plug it
into the group output, and connect size
X and size Y to the group input node.
Now, you can change the grid size from
the modifiers tab. Do the same for
vertices X and Y. Go to wireframe mode
and increase this integer. More wires.
Nice. Now add the mesh to points node.
Set it to faces. It turned our faces
into small dots. Add instance on points
node. And everything disappeared. Why?
Because we are instancing nothing. We
need to put something here. So just drag
our grid mesh to the instance
socket. And to not make look this node
tree like move the mesh to points
a little bit up. And by holding shift
plus right mouse button, you cut the
wire like that, adding a reroute point.
Literally making your node trees
organized will save you from
schizophrenia. Let's keep going. Select
these nodes. Press CtrlJ. Click F2 and
name this frame even more
organized. Now add rotate instances
node. Set this to 45°. Add scale
instances node. Set it to 2. Duplicate
this scale instances node and put it
here. Take position node here and plug
it here and start wondering what the has
just happened. No worries, you'll
understand in the future. Hold the
output of this node. Stop holding it.
Type distance. Click enter. Now each
instance is recalling the position
attribute and mapping the distance
between its position and the vector 0 0
which is in the middle. Hold shift plus
control and leftclick this and this.
Change this to instance as we have
instances. Now you're previewing the
data you've just created. And that makes
sense. This instance has a position of 0
0 0. And if you check the distance
between 0
0 and 0 0, you'll get zero. And that's
why it's black. Whitider color equals
higher
value. Delete the viewer node. Realize
instances to make these actual geometry.
Add distribute points on faces node.
Create Suzanne. Go back to our nodes
tree. Take Suzanne with us. Add instance
on points. Plug Suzanne in. Take this
type random value and enter. And watch
the beautiful work of art you've just
created. This is looking terrible to be
honest, but I wanted to show you the
most commonly used nodes. And with this
knowledge, you should get all other
tutorials way easier. Speaking of that,
maybe you'll create
[Music]
this
Heat. Heat.